it's 36 and a half past the hour next if
he only had a heart actor brent Spiner
Star Trek's Lieutenant Commander data
the Android who wishes he were human
when do Morning America continues well
it's got to be rough for any Android
possessing super-strength and
intelligent who really long so to be
human
such was the lot of Lieutenant Commander
data for seven years on the TV series
Star Trek The Next Generation and the
lot of brent Spiner who played data has
been somewhat better however he's now
making his film debut in a starring role
in Star Trek generations although the
screen may be bigger the Android
longings are the same it appears to be
magnetically sealed I believe I can
reverse the polarity by attenuating my
axial servo
you could say I have a magnetic
personality it's such a human thing
right spider joins me now it's always
good to see you because then people get
to see what you look like without all
that gold stuff is that powder or is
that dream gold powder it's all over
everything I bet was it it I have
clothes that will forever have gold
powder on them assuming I had those
clothes forever well is it did you ever
really get used to that though all the
time I mean no and do people recognize
you off the set like normal well the
longer the show went on the more I seem
to be recognized and I always feel if I
can stay out of profile I won't be
recognized at all now you went right
from the TV series right into making the
movie and he said at the time we're
being treated just as much like meat as
we ever were maybe a prime cut of meat
instead of hamburger well-done statement
I'm sure paramount was delighted to hear
that no it was it was it a little kind
of a strange TV series to be working I
mean you're more Androids and all these
things well I think the strangest thing
about it was we were that we were on
sound stages all day with no windows and
you know for 15 to 18 hours a day and
and we all sort of went mad in the
process which helped things in the long
run and you have said before that you
weren't really a big science-fiction fan
and here you end up by probably not
probably the most popular sci-fi story
in history well it's true I I was more
of a Lucy fan then there was very little
chance I was gonna wind up on that show
so this is a living that's how it
started out eh
sounds like a good job but did you did
you have any idea what's gonna last for
seven years no I I assumed when we began
it would be a one-year experience my
show was sold for a year and I was like
everybody else I thought there's no way
you could do another Star Trek and seven
years later I'm eating my words you I
believe we're the
asked of the next generation caste to
sign on to the movie so what were you
holding out for Brent well it was just a
negotiation ploy you know I learned from
the Masters and from lieutenant data
exactly it was actually don't forget to
get another starring role in some others
non Star Trek movie though right well
movies yeah yeah and now they have the
new sequels there's the big rumor that
while they were filming your last
episodes they were already building the
sets for the new shows and Trekkies were
a little tipped within this thing you
were in the top five why did they cancel
it you know I think undoubtedly it was
purely an economic reality and I just
think that they they found that they
would do better with new shows coming on
and then there's this thing of salaries
going up as the years go on and they
start a new one where they can have
lower set but you had 178 episodes
exactly which is I think pretty much
enough of any and there'll be more Star
Trek movies perhaps but yeah I think
another economic reality there but we're
hopeful and I think there probably will
be don't put all your gold powder away
Brenton good to see you thanks Joe and
again the movies coming out what this
weekend Friday Friday and it's called
Star Trek generations good to see you
thanks